### History Repeats But With New Sunglasses And A Shinier Smile 

The Bowker chapter on apartheid and classification left me with three insights relating to inconsistency, surveillance and conformity that can be mapped to current times too easily. Bowker explains that “for apartheid to function at this level of detail, people had to be unambiguously categorizable by race … Many people did not conform to the typologies constructed under the law (Bowker, 201). To accomplish this, those in power devised a finite list of classes and based their classifications on physical features and family history. The issue I see with this is that the justification for a person's classification came from one of two problematic sources of information. The first is what others could see (e.g. appearances, actions). This view ignores the complicated nature of race and treats it as a static entity through time and space. The second justification comes from the experiences and presumptions of the individual making the classification, which can be inconsistent from person to person, and is in no way related to the individual being put into a class. The article says it best in arguing that “any attempt at race classification and therefore race definition can at best be only an approximation” (203). This property of inconsistency, so ingrained in the class system, was intentional on the part of those in power in order for them to wield control as they saw fit, regardless of the consequences. In some ways, this classification system can be linked to that of biometrics. Mordini describes personal recognition partially as “unconscious, implicit messages that are mostly channeled by non-verbal (bodily) languages” (Mordini, 493). How ethical is it to turn someone into a number? Most of our nonverbal assumptions are just simply that, assumptions, and are based on our own history and experiences. Classifying people in this inconsistent way can result in a majority of false positives. I don’t think there are any good systems, technological or not, that can be used to classify people in the ways defined by “personal recognition”. Mordini uses the term “human essence” but I think we are more than our physicality, I’m not convinced that we can ever fully represent a human with this technology or with a crude racial classification system.

Additionally, the classification and reclassification process of apartheid gave those in power a “justified” avenue to surveil communities of people. Bowker’s descriptions of how patches of society were “vigorously patrolled by police … detailed use of binoculars, tape recorders, cameras, and two-way radios to trap offenders” holds an eerily resemblance to the surveillance of current times (Bowker, 197). This can be seen in the way that Mordini describes biometrics. Mordini states that “biometric characteristics could become a covert source for prospective medical information, allowing people to be profiled according to their current and potential health status” (Mordini, 491-492). Without proper regulations and laws, the information collected under the guise of ‘classification’ has many unethical and invasive uses. These sentiments are even relayed in the Jacobsen publication. Jacobsen argues that “even though the data were anonymized, the person’s identity could be determined by an external actor if it matched (or was believed to match) an iris template in another database” (Jacobsen, 158). How do we hold an organization accountable?  This points to a lack of understanding about how connected sources of data can actually be. The data collected by one organization may be perfectly legal and ethical but if it is ever to be given to another organization that has access to a separate dataset, the combined data could be used maliciously or in unexpected ways from the way of the original, ‘benign’ data. It makes me wonder how organizations with different laws, restrictions or frameworks coexist. If regulation is introduced under one jurisdiction, how does it legally apply to another?

Bowker states that the “network of suspicion, spying and search for purity implied here affected every aspect of South African life for those in all racial categories” (Bowker, 209). The classification had rippling effects in many communities; Bowker’s discussion of “passing” is one example of this. Individuals that could pass as white separated themselves from friends and relatives who could not pass and moved to white or mixed neighborhoods. They gave up their heritage, culture and friendships in order to have the privileges (some might call basic human rights) that came with passing as white. In doing so, the rich cultural landscape was disrupted in favor of conformity. I recently read a novel called “The City We Became” by N.K. Jemisin which is a take on the boroughs of New York City as represented by people. Each borough has a unique personality and a rich, historical presence. The enemy of the city, arguably, is white supremacy and gentrification (as represented by a white woman) which replaces the culture and uniqueness of each borough with generality and sameness. Although “passing” is a complicated topic with many sides to dissect and can be viewed as a form of historical culture in and of itself (best saved for another reflection although, works by Toni Morrison and Helen Oyeyemi come to mind), Bowker’s descriptions of the “passing” in South Africa remind me of this washing away of culture. Mordini’s discussion of biometrics includes “concern for the ways in which digitalization of physical features may affect the representation of ourselves and may produce processes of ‘disembodiment’” (Mordini, 494). I find this and the idea of “passing” similar and it’s not clear to me how our increased use of biometrics will affect who we are or how we act.

The heart of the relationship between the history described in the Bowker chapter and the current technological landscape is best described with Bowker’s statement that apartheid “constituted an object lesson in the problematics of classifying individuals into life-determining boxes, outside of their control, tightly coupled with their every movement and in an ecology of increasing densely classified activities” (Bowker, 223). Classification is obviously a form of control. The fact that it was so difficult for anyone to appeal their classification has many implications in today’s world, namely as more models are built to classify people based on their appearances and actions that do not easily allow a person to fight against the way they have been classified. This is something machine learning scientists should consider before they build models for corporations and governments interested in increasing their power over society. The use of systems “to build up subtle (and not-so-subtle) profiles of individuals based on their filiations to a myriad of categories” is made only easier as the user of covert and unregulated biometrics increases (224). The biggest issue given our current situation is how difficult it is to identify the many ways an individual is being profiled. In Mordini’s work on biometrics, they argue that “applications are by definition covert (e.g. screening and surveillance), but also because biometric sensors are more and more embedded in ambient intelligence environments” (Mordini, 492). I’m not convinced we can refute something that we are unaware is there. That combined with the dehumanizing view of people as members of a government- or corporate-defined class has important and negative implications for our society.


---

Bowker, Geoffrey C., and Susan L. Star. "Sorting Things Out: Classification and
Its Consequences." *Mit Press,*  1999, pp. 195-225.

Jemisin, N.K. "The City We Became." *Orbit,* 2020.

Lindskov Jacobsen, Katja. "Experimentation in humanitarian locations: UNHCR and
biometric registration of Afghan refugees." *Security Dialogue,* vol. 46, no. 2,
2015, pp. 144-164.

Mordini, Emilio, and Sonia Massari. "Body, Biometrics and Identity."
*Bioethics,* vol. 22, no. 9, 2008, pp. 488-498.


---
[Go Back](https://cosbeyr.github.io/Data-Dilemmas/)
