### Globalization and Localization

“Implications for Design” is an article about ethnography, both historically and in the context of human-computer interaction. The author spends a great deal of time describing what ethnography is not with the basis of the arguments around the idea that ethnography is not simply an implication for design. Ethnography is not purely methodological or a passive agent and cannot be a mediator between social and technical (because ethnography does not make a distinction between the two). Historically, technologists have exploited ethnography as a tool in which they develop new softwares but the author of this article argues that ethnography is not “best oriented towards the creation of new sorts of technological or consumer artifacts” (Dourish, 545). This and the idea that ethnography can recommend what should as well as what should not be built makes sense to me. I don’t think as a tech community we spend enough time thinking about reasons why we shouldn’t build technology. In machine learning, I question the actions of my peers constantly; my area of interest is in explainability and model interpretability which is usually at odds with many of the new deep learning models in development and deployment. Once, I asked a colleague why interpretability was viewed as unimportant to many in our field. He was of the opinion that models that were inherently interpretable or were made to be so generally received lower accuracy metric scores and were, therefore, inferior to the more complex, non-linear approaches which received higher accuracy scores. I was, and still am, dismayed to see this view from my peers because we, as machine learning scientists, have developed these accuracy measures and they do not take into consideration the social setting in which many of these models will be placed.  “Innovation” is a buzzword I hear often throughout my research community and others within the technology domain but rarely is the “innovation” being presented thoughtful or useful. 

One passage that spoke to me in this reading was that ethnography views creative practices “as natural consequences of everyday action, not as a problem to be eliminated” (Dourish, 546). As technologists, our motivations should be for the betterment of our communities, with each advance we make we should be supporting traditions and cultures rather than tearing them down and replacing them with our own ideas of what an ideal society should look like. This sentiment also came to my mind while reading “The Ethnography of Infrastructure.” Each community has a customized infrastructure known by the members of that community, the author’s example is that of biologists. The point the author makes about how infrastructure can only be “fixed in modular increments, not all at once or globally” speaks both to the individuality of each infrastructure and also to the interconnectedness of all infrastructures (Star, 382). As technologists, if we try to “fix” something in one domain it will have rippling effects throughout not only the domain it exists in but also in a multitude of other domains. This also draws me back to the DesignX article from last week’s celebration of incrementalism in design. Both Dourish and Star explore the importance of system users with Star arguing that “finding the invisible work in information systems requires looking for these processes in the traces left behind by coders, designers, and users” (Star, 385). Why would we even think to design something without first considering how it could be used? Similarly to last week, I think too often we, as technologists, focus on how something “should” be used rather than how it “could” be used. 


---

Dourish, Paul. "Implications for Design." *CHI*, 2006, pp. 541-550.

Star, Susan L. "The Ethnography of Infrastructure." *American Behavioral
Scientist*, vol. 43, 1999, pp. 377-391.


---
[Go Back](https://cosbeyr.github.io/Data-Dilemmas/)
