### Power Trips 

The final track of Pure Heroine, Lorde's debut album (the track fittingly named
A World Alone), includes the lyric "Maybe the internet raised us / Or maybe
people are jerks." I think the Millenials of the world hold an interesting
perspective on the Internet because we have been the users experiencing the
growth and change that both Benkler and Clark describe. Unlike our parents, we
are not preferential to the early, original Internet design and unlike the
generation that has come after us, we are not preferential to the Internet
dominated by corporate giants.  We grew in parallel to the budding Internet and
have watched her mature with each new innovation; we have watched Google,
Facebook, Amazon and Twitter (among others) rise in power and transform the way
the Internet is used and viewed by all. Benkler argues that in order to
“preserve the democratic and creative promise of the Internet, we must
continuously diagnose control points … and devise mechanisms of recreating
diversity of constraint and degrees of freedom in the network” (Benkler, 18).
Throughout the article he addresses how “control points” including app stores,
cloud computing, big data and the “Netflix effect” have altered or replaced the
diverse and open systems of the Internet’s original design. The openness and
decentralized quality of the initial Internet are two of the many similarities
between Benkler’s and Clark’s positions about how the Internet has changed over
the years. Clark states that “the past teaches us that we should always … allow
for the future even when faced with the needs of the present” (Clark, 10). 

Benkler’s point about big data and how it “may ultimately allow a small number
of companies - those large enough to control, access, and analyze sufficient
data - to predict, shape, and ‘nudge’ the behaviors of hundreds of millions of
people” (Benkler, 19) has important security implications. When discussing cloud
computing, Benkler goes on to say “when the data and software of hundreds of
millions of people exist or run in a single place, whoever can compromise and
gain control over it - legitimately or illegitimately - can exercise power over
these hundreds of millions of people” (23). As more infrastructure has been
built on top of the Internet, a common goal of colossal companies and
overbearing governments is the increased ability to collect data about the users
of these services (demographics, browsing history, etc.) which is then stored in
centralized locations. Anyone with money potentially has the power to access
these sources of information and I think more often than not their motivations
are questionable or inherently unethical. This infrastructure has eroded away a
lot of the power of the user, a quality that was in abundance in the early days
of the Internet. I agree with Benkler’s advice that we must “design a system
that will disrupt forms of power - old and new - as they emerge, and that will
provide a range of degrees of freedom, allowing individuals and groups to bob
and weave among the sources and forms of power that the Internet is coming to
instantiate (Benkler, 20). I think introducing regulations about the data that
can be collected is an important way to begin to dismantle the toxic
infrastructure that has allowed Amazon and Facebook to dominate the Internet. 

As designers we are responsible for maintaining an ethical Internet; Benkler’s
example of a slowdown “caused by business disputes, not technical issues” is the
perfect example of how we are failing to uphold this currently (22). We are in a
position to bridge the gap between users of the Internet by putting pressure on
the companies responsible for this breach in user privacy. We should be creating
technology that empowers users rather than corporations. Benkler examines the
idea of regulation but ultimately deems “formalized rules imposed externally by
a regulatory body ... likely to function … imperfectly and incompletely” (24).
Clark, to some extent, reflects this view and adds the complication of different
governing bodies or cultures needing to address this in different ways. I don’t
think that there is a one-size-fits-all solution but I also don’t think that the
Internet needs to be a universal and global entity. A lot of folks argue that
one of the biggest benefits of the Internet and technology in general is
bringing people together who would be unable to connect without it. I feel the
need to stress the innate interference that comes with the limitations of
humans. Even if I, as a user of the Internet, am able to interact with people
from other places, I see a few issues: (1) both the degree of interaction as
well as the scale of interactions I can have are limited. Video chatting or
messaging is not on par with in-person interaction however you spin it.
Additionally, the capacity of a person to interact with other people without
getting overwhelmed by the number of dialogues is an issue. (2) what we have
seen so far is users of the Internet primarily interacting with alike users
(e.g. others that share their religious or political beliefs). This has the
effect of negating any of the positives, creating a toxic and confrontational
environment rather than a unifying one. 

Clark describes that “some of the early Internet visionaries conceived the
Internet as a platform for global discourse and a vector for global civil
society” but the arguments I made above point to flaws in this idea (Clark, 14).
I do not think it has scaled along with the growing Internet. It also brings
about many issues relating to security, which Clark mentions as “identity
management.” He also points out that “the design decisions that shaped the
Internet … likely did not optimize secure and trustworthy operation” (11). The
original infrastructure of the Internet was not built to support the large
number of users of today’s Internet. It is important that we take this into
consideration as we continually build over and replace that original
infrastructure. Clark’s endorsement of encryption is an avenue that should be
dealt with further. It seems like one way to reduce the data collection and
empower the users.


---

Benkler, Yochai. "Degrees of Freedom, Dimensions of Power." *Daedalus, the
Journal of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences,* vol. 145 (1), 2016, pp.
18-32.

Clark, David D. "The Contingent Internet." *Daedalus, the Journal of the
American Academy of Arts & Sciences,* vol. 145 (1), 2016, pp. 9-17.

Lorde. "A World Alone." *Pure Heroine,* Universal, 2013.

O'Hara, Dustin. "Internet Tussles - a framework for analyzing heterogenous
networks." *What is Information Conference,* 2020.

---
[Go Back](https://cosbeyr.github.io/Data-Dilemmas/)
